# RNA Sequencing Identification of Synonymous Pathways Implicated in Common Gastrointestinal Diseases
Better understanding and genetic characterization of the gut microbiome will allow for the identification of clinically distinct gastrointestinal diseases. Facilitated by high throughput technologies, intestinal flora analyses have elucidated a broad spectrum of neuropsychiatric, immunological, and allergic disorders linked with this organ system. Microbiome research has especially shed light on irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), or irritable bowel disease (IBD), which is thought to affect approximately 7% to 21% of the population. However, IBD is difficult to diagnose and treat as it presents with a constellation of symptoms, many of which are extremely similar to other common gastrointestinal diseases. Accordingly, clinical diagnosis of the illness is typically only made when biomarkers for other common gastrointestinal diseases are absent. Still, these other disorders have similar multifactorial symptomologies, such as altered intestinal microbiota profiles, mucosal inflammation, and immune activation. In turn, implicated factors such as changes in gut microbiome composition, gut immune function, brain-gut interactions, as well as upregulation of specific disease pathways may provide a way to efficiently distinguish IBD from these other illnesses for diagnostic relevance. That is, though these illnesses, including irritable bowel syndrome, pancreatitis, and ulcerative colitis, present with similar symptoms, each has a unique cause and may act on different physiological pathways. These pathways can be differentiated through transcriptomic analyses. Elucidation of such factors in the form of a diagnostic tool may inform clinical decision making, in turn leading to better patient outcomes. Accordingly, in this study, we aim to elucidate pathways synonymously and differentially implicated in such gastrointestinal disorders.

## Installation Requirements
No installation required.

## Usage
Slurm file may be run on the Holland Computing Center using a sbatch command.